ccip-api-ref/docs-cli/show.mdx, before:

---
id: show
title: 'show'
description: 'Display details of a CCIP request, including commit status and execution receipts.'
sidebar_label: show
sidebar_position: 2
custom_edit_url: null
---

# show

<ChainSupport />

Display details of a CCIP request, including commit status and execution receipts.

## Synopsis

```bash
ccip-cli show <tx-hash> [options]
```

`show` is the default command, so you can also use:

```bash
ccip-cli <tx-hash>
```

## Description

The `show` command retrieves and displays comprehensive information about a CCIP cross-chain message. It queries the source chain for the original request, then checks the destination chain for commit and execution status.

## Arguments

| Argument    | Type   | Required | Description                                                      |
| ----------- | ------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<tx-hash>` | string | Yes      | Transaction hash containing the CCIP request on the source chain |

## Options

| Option             | Type    | Default | Description                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------ | ------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `--log-index`      | number  | -       | Select a specific message by log index when multiple CCIP messages exist in one transaction. If omitted, an interactive menu is displayed. |
| `--id-from-source` | string  | -       | Search by message ID instead of transaction hash. Format: `[onRamp@]sourceNetwork`. The onRamp address may be required for some chains.    |
| `--wait`           | boolean | -       | Wait for finality, commit, and first execution of pending requests before returning.                                                       |

See [Configuration](/cli/configuration) for global options (`--rpcs`, `--format`, etc.).

## Command Builder

Build your `show` command interactively:

<CLIBuilder command="show" />

## Examples

### Track a message by transaction hash

```bash
ccip-cli show 0xafd36a0b99d5457e403c918194cb69cd070d991dcbadc99576acfce5020c0b6b \
  --rpc https://eth-sepolia.example.com \
  --rpc https://arb-sepolia.example.com
```

### Select a specific message in a multi-message transaction

When a transaction contains multiple CCIP messages, use `--log-index` to select one:

```bash
ccip-cli show 0xabc123... --log-index 2
```

### Search by message ID

If you have the message ID instead of the transaction hash:

```bash
ccip-cli show 0xmessageId... --id-from-source ethereum-testnet-sepolia
```

### Output as JSON for scripting

```bash
ccip-cli show 0xabc123... --format json
```

### Wait for message execution

Monitor a message until it's fully executed on the destination chain:

```bash
ccip-cli show 0xabc123... --wait
```

## Output

The command displays three sections:

| Section      | Description                                                    |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Request**  | Message details from the source chain (sender, receiver, data) |
| **Commit**   | Commit report from destination chain (merkle root, sequences)  |
| **Receipts** | Execution receipts showing success or failure status           |

## Behavior

1. The CLI attempts all configured RPCs in parallel
1. Uses the first network that responds with the transaction
1. If destination RPC is available, fetches commit and execution status
1. For multi-message transactions without `--log-index`, displays an interactive selection menu

## See Also

- [manualExec](/cli/manual-exec) - Execute pending or failed messages
- [Configuration](/cli/configuration) - RPC and output format options

## Exit Codes

| Code | Meaning                                                       |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `0`  | Success - message details retrieved                           |
| `1`  | Error (network failure, message not found, invalid arguments) |

Use in scripts:

```bash
ccip-cli show $TX_HASH --format json && echo "Message found" || echo "Failed"
```

Commit message:

feat(api-ref): add ExamplesShowcase component and documentation fixes
- Add config-driven ExamplesShowcase component for homepage
- Fix show.mdx documentation to support messageId lookup
- Fix CCIPAPIClient JSDoc example (request.metadata.status)
- Enhance llms.txt generation with ESM compatibility and error class extraction
- Update CLI show command positional arg description

ccip-api-ref/docs-cli/show.mdx, after:

---
id: show
title: 'show'
description: 'Display details of a CCIP request, including commit status and execution receipts.'
sidebar_label: show
sidebar_position: 2
custom_edit_url: null
---

# show

<ChainSupport />

Display details of a CCIP request, including commit status and execution receipts.

## Synopsis

```bash
ccip-cli show <tx-hash-or-id> [options]
```

`show` is the default command, so you can also use:

```bash
ccip-cli <tx-hash-or-id>
```

## Description

The `show` command retrieves and displays comprehensive information about a CCIP cross-chain message. It queries the source chain for the original request, then checks the destination chain for commit and execution status.

## Arguments

| Argument          | Type   | Required | Description                                                                                                                                  |
| ----------------- | ------ | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<tx-hash-or-id>` | string | Yes      | Transaction hash or message ID. Accepts source chain transaction hashes (EVM hex, Solana Base58) or 32-byte message IDs (0x + 64 hex chars). |

## Options

| Option        | Type    | Default | Description                                                                                                                                |
| ------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `--log-index` | number  | -       | Select a specific message by log index when multiple CCIP messages exist in one transaction. If omitted, an interactive menu is displayed. |
| `--wait`      | boolean | -       | Wait for finality, commit, and first execution of pending requests before returning.                                                       |

See [Configuration](/cli/configuration) for global options (`--rpcs`, `--format`, etc.).

## Command Builder

Build your `show` command interactively:

<CLIBuilder command="show" />

## Examples

### Track a message by transaction hash

```bash
ccip-cli show 0xafd36a0b99d5457e403c918194cb69cd070d991dcbadc99576acfce5020c0b6b \
  --rpc https://eth-sepolia.example.com \
  --rpc https://arb-sepolia.example.com
```

### Select a specific message in a multi-message transaction

When a transaction contains multiple CCIP messages, use `--log-index` to select one:

```bash
ccip-cli show 0xabc123... --log-index 2
```

### Search by message ID

If you have the message ID (32-byte hex) instead of the transaction hash:

```bash
ccip-cli show 0x1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef \
  --rpc https://eth-sepolia.example.com \
  --rpc https://arb-sepolia.example.com
```

The CLI automatically detects whether the input is a transaction hash or message ID and queries the appropriate source (RPC or CCIP API).

### Output as JSON for scripting

```bash
ccip-cli show 0xabc123... --format json
```

### Wait for message execution

Monitor a message until it's fully executed on the destination chain:

```bash
ccip-cli show 0xabc123... --wait
```

## Output

The command displays three sections:

| Section      | Description                                                    |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Request**  | Message details from the source chain (sender, receiver, data) |
| **Commit**   | Commit report from destination chain (merkle root, sequences)  |
| **Receipts** | Execution receipts showing success or failure status           |

## Behavior

1. The CLI validates the input using `isSupportedTxHash()` to ensure it's a valid transaction hash format
1. If the input is a 32-byte hex string (message ID format), the CLI races both:
   - Local RPC lookup via `getMessagesInTx()`
   - CCIP API lookup via `getMessageById()`
1. Uses the first source that responds with valid data
1. If destination RPC is available, fetches commit and execution status
1. For multi-message transactions without `--log-index`, displays an interactive selection menu

Use `--no-api` (see [Configuration](/cli/configuration)) to disable API fallback and use only RPC endpoints.

## See Also

- [manualExec](/cli/manual-exec) - Execute pending or failed messages
- [Configuration](/cli/configuration) - RPC and output format options

## Exit Codes

| Code | Meaning                                                       |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `0`  | Success - message details retrieved                           |
| `1`  | Error (network failure, message not found, invalid arguments) |

Use in scripts:

```bash
ccip-cli show $TX_HASH --format json && echo "Message found" || echo "Failed"
```
